When visiting a webpage, no one really thinks about what is going on behind the scenes. We all just type in whatever we want to know and by some magical process our computer gives us answers. The place which we ask for this information is called the internet. But, for the internet to give you information it has to have access to the web. The internet is one application of many on a computer. The web is a collection of information that is stored on the internet. Websites make up the web, and web pages make up the websites. And, in these webpages and websites are links which can send you to a different website or page for different information. Now, for our computers, or clients, to access the information on the internet it has to talk to other computers, or severs. They do this through a browser. A browser is a system that communicates with the servers to retrieve information. Browsers are run by the clients to talk to the servers. They do not communicate in our language however. So to us, it would look like a bunch of nonsense. They speak in HTTP, or HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is a way of speaking to each other, this system is made up of short conversations consisting of simple questions and demands for information. The actual language that they use is HTML, HyperText Markup Language. For us to access these websites we put in URLs, Universal or Uniform Resource Locator. Which are basically GPS coordinates for our computers to find the information that we are looking for. For instance, http://www.google.com. The first section of this is telling the computer to use HTTP to find the information. Next is the address, or domain name, that we are looking for. The computer uses this as one of the coordinates. Lastly is the .com part. This part changes website to website. It can be .com, .net, .edu, .org, and many others. These are the final coordinates that tell the computer what kind of information they are looking for. If you type in xxx.com you will receive one thing, but if you type in xxx.org it will be a completely different set of information.
